104.251.216.58

http://cherokeeonefire.com 

What resources do you think we'd need?  I was thinking resources to download (like pdfs, zip files, whatever), links to projects with summaries, maybe a forum, a way to message, so membership for some elements, a way for members to write articles (including summaries of existing articles and link to original articles), and a role structure so not everyone can upload files without approval, idk what else.  we have 180GB or so of hard drive and I can get more space if we need it.  so if there are videos to host we could put those on a youtube channel then embed them in the pages or we can host them same with hosting audio files people put together.


I've been finding that coordinating resources from all manner of schools, universities, resources, etc has been proving difficult.  I have probably 100gb of resources that get sent to me or I've found.

I'd like to form some sort of consolidated something so that everyone working on their projects has access to the same work and information

and can share what they're doing - maybe even links to resources - idk

idk if that makes sense

maybe like the technology group in facebook, but like an electronic resources site where anyone can coordinate and collaborate

professors, consortium, developers like myself and michael, etc

people who know the language and are working to preserve it and share their thoughts and ideas - storing papers, archiving resources, etc maybe have articles on the subjects.  Unowned and open source.

things like keeping the most up-to-date xls of the different word lists and the like

all free to use and download - collaborate (and listen! lol) - not a teaching site, but reference.  if there's an article out on the net it can be linked there - summarized, whatever.  people could write their own articles and publish them.  that kind of thing.

is there anything like this already?  

what do you think?
Wed 11:32 AM

?? sent March 31 at 11:32 AM
I have a student working on a website like that. Right now it’s under UNC’s infrastructure, but we’ve discussed moving it out of that because it needs to be unaffiliated, like you say. I will send you a link to it, along with a video on how we were intending to implement it.
You sent March 31 at 12:31 PM
ok cool wadodv!  The reason I've kept paying for the CED is so that it's unaffilitated as well, so I get that - eventually, when I finish the complete build process the site will be open-sourced .  I'd be happy to fund a site and hosting and let anyone you suggest be admin for it.  I don't want to own it just provide the resources and help with collaboration.
Thu 7:40 PM

?? sent Yesterday at 7:40 PM
omg that would be so helpful! Here is the link to the current site, and the video meeting on what it's for/about with the student who created it. He's desperately seeking someone to kind of take over shepherding it anyway. https://uncch.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=955c5b46-6290-4bd0-a2fb-acc201585594
XMA Header Image
Cherokee Educators' Meeting
uncch.hosted.panopto.com

?? sent Yesterday at 7:40 PM
https://cherokee.web.unc.edu/
XMA Header Image
Home - UNC Cherokee Program
cherokee.web.unc.edu

?? sent Yesterday at 7:42 PM
You know the other thing we might do would be to just post a donation button or something, to offset the cost of doing this stuff. I don't really know how that all works, but it would be nice if we could kind of crowd-fund the dictionary and the resource archive.
You sent Yesterday at 8:00 PM
I'd love to curate.  I'll look into expanding my host services for more space.  My current server only costs 12 a month and that includes a full daily backup so we don't have an issue wehre the site is down for a month b/c my host has a DDOS - that sucked.

Once I get a host we can decide on a domain unless you have an idea for that.  Then I'll get you the admin information and all of that.  I've been talking to a few software people about the site to collaborate projects on.  I think it'll be nice to have a location someone can go to to see what projects are out there, resources like dissertations, links to existing resources like the nation site or some of the other sites.  and then a way that someone can look and say like "stanford did this work and I can build on it instead of starting over"

on another note: I just finished the major rewrite of the conjugation engine.  So i'm almost through with the prefixes then I'll publish those before I move on to finishing the suffixes.  I'm ready to be done so we can test it
You sent Yesterday at 8:05 PM
when was this recording made, that you sent?

?? sent Yesterday at 8:38 PM
I think it’s from around 2/22? Not long ago.
?? sent Yesterday at 8:38 PM
What you’re proposing is EXACTLY what we’re all kinda wanting to move toward, I think. Just a unified place where people can go to access all the “stuff.”
You sent Yesterday at 8:53 PM
awesome!  If you have an idea for the name of the site (domain, etc) I'd like to hear it.

?? sent Yesterday at 9:18 PM
I’ll give it a think. One I’ve been kinda turning over is “one fire.” Like onefire.com or something? To symbolize the non-partisan-ness and universal availability?
XMA Header Image
Modern Marketing
onefire.com

?? sent Yesterday at 9:19 PM
Hell. That’s already taken I guess
You sent Yesterday at 9:50 PM
I like it too.  What is the cherokee for that?  or do you think it'd be easier to find an english name for people to remember
You sent Yesterday at 9:51 PM
maybe just make it cherokee one fire (cherokeeonefire.com)?
cherokeeonefire.com
cherokeeonefire.com

?? sent Yesterday at 10:03 PM
Ooh that’s not bad!
You sent Yesterday at 10:10 PM
I'll get the domain and if we want to change it later we can - if that's ok
You sent Yesterday at 10:53 PM
too late, so slow - so it looks like I can get 12TB of traffic and a 180GB drive space (which is 176GB more than the amount of files and data I own) for 42 a month - that's not bad.  They'll set it up and then I'll get a site up
6:53 AM

?? sent Today at 6:53 AM
That sounds great! Sgi!!
11:49 AM
You sent Today at 11:49 AM
http://cherokeeonefire.com 

What resources do you think we'd need?  I was thinking resources to download (like pdfs, zip files, whatever), links to projects with summaries, maybe a forum, a way to message, so membership for some elements, a way for members to write articles (including summaries of existing articles and link to original articles), and a role structure so not everyone can upload files without approval, idk what else.  we have 180GB or so of hard drive and I can get more space if we need it.  so if there are videos to host we could put those on a youtube channel then embed them in the pages or we can host them same with hosting audio files people put together.

anything else you can think of?

The site has an autobackup nightly that is kept for 3 days.
Welcome to nginx!
cherokeeonefire.com

?? sent Today at 12:39 PM
A Downloads page for resources would be good, yeah, and categories for types of resources; I like the idea of messaging and articles/summaries. Role structure is a must - we don’t want just anybody uploading/writing whatever the hell they want. I don’t want the East Montana Band of Cherokees on here or something. ?? YouTube channel is probably a good call too, and hosting audio files. It might be good to do a brainstorm sesh and/or poll people as to what kinds of resources they want to see available, then I could just go grab them and put them up. I know people will want audio files, resources for learning syllabary, grammar stuff, texts, videos, links to other resource pages like https://dailp.northeastern.edu
XMA Header Image
Collections - DAILP
dailp.northeastern.edu

?? sent Today at 12:41 PM
What are we thinking about in terms of copyright? Like I would love to post the full Charlotte’s Web book, but I don’t think we’d be allowed.
You sent Today at 1:02 PM
same - I'd love to collect everything we can for a central repo like the seed repository lol 

The route I'm thinking is that we collect whatever we want and store it on the server - however, for copywritten materials like 13 Moons we link to purchasing for it.  We can ask if the corpus is allowed in our resources but maybe we can restrict who is allowed to view it.  Like someone doing research we could open it up like they do in a library.  For code projects and the like I'm thinking we can just post links to projects and I can probably get sources for those projects and maintain a library of "just in case" files.  For universities I'm thinking we ask if we can host a copy or store a copy and link to their project.  With open source repositories like github I don't think we'll need to host code, but we can pull those repositories and store the latest copies.

the CED site we asked Durbin for permission to post his material and use it - the CED and grammar guide.  I've talked to Jeff Bourne about his work with Hiroto Uchihara and he's sent me excel spreadsheets of some items they've transcribed like the VRB.  Craig said we could use the VRB.

So, I guess my answer is, that I think we have to go case-by-case.  We can collect info and store it but not publish it for public consumption until we have permissions?  Like I have a ton of word docs and pdfs sent to me that are from universities like WCU and Northeast Oklahoma - some are no longer around or found via the web.

I'm also thinking we can add a discord channel for people to be able to talk about things and ask questions, and the like.  That's free and we can set up subchannels for topics.  it's a little better than a forum but not as searchable - but you can do voice chats as well.  Like I said, I have about 4GB of material sent to me or found including 2 gb of audio from items like See Say Write, Holmes-Smith, and the CNO site.  So for items included we'll have to be able to shut off public access or restrict user access just in case.

I'd love it if the universities and independent projects found an unaffiliated home.  However, just a central location people can go to to find resources is a major bonus.  Items like Cherokee Phoenix no longer has Cherokee on their site.  I think they just redesigned so links aren't working anymore, some audio is, but the Cherokee pages aren't showing or searchable anymore.  I'd like to host a kind of 'mirror' of those items for people to be able to look up later in case they disappear.

Even sections about translation contacts, tutoring, etc would be fantastic.  thoughts?

side-note-squirrel: have you seen this site? http://thai-language.com/let/161
XMA Header Image
thai-language.com
thai-language.com

?? sent Today at 1:12 PM
I haven’t. I like the ideas about links for translation stuff and tutoring and whatnot. And I think the idea of storing stuff and then waiting till we have permission to make it available.
?? sent Today at 1:12 PM
Oh! Also I should tell you there is a learners’ Discord already.
You sent Today at 1:23 PM
Ooo - we can link to that too!  I may be a little excited lol